imagine ranking number one on Google for
keywords your perfect fit clients are
searching for that would mean steady
flow of leads quality traffic and most
importantly revenue on autopilot without
having to spend cash on ads outbound
sales or other tactics or strategies I'm
going to outline exactly how you can do
this for your B2B Tech or Service
Company to get a steady stream of those
juicy organic inbounds I'm going to lay
down the exact strategy we followed for
wildpark to get them organic position
one within 30 days for their B2B SAS
company for alternative based keywords
and the B2B Playbook we got ranking
above HubSpot cxl Pavilion and other
huge brands in 50 days and drove leads
and revenue by day 67 I don't want to
waste any more of your time let's dive
into the exact strategy you can follow
to so first off you want to build out a
detailed exhaustive list of your money
keywords what the heck's a money keyword
a money keyword is a commercial longtail
High sales intent keyword that a dream
client would search for on Google when
their likely to look to take a demo book
a sales cool maybe sign up or evaluate
options in your space what's most likely
to drive inbound leads for our company
and folks are searching for it on Google
I recommend you fire up a Google sheet
or an Excel sheet and you build out four
main columns column one your main offers
column two the main industries and
niches you serve best column three your
main competitors and column four your
dream clients's jobs to be done let's
break each one down so number one in
this example I'm pretending we provide
prop proposal software so how do folks
on sales calls refer to our offer they
might call it proposal software proposal
tools proposal platform what else would
they use fill that out in column one
column two industries what are the main
niches that you serve super well that
are historically bought well from you
that have the problem that you solve
that are motivated to solve it and have
no issue investing it they have the cash
to easily invest in your offer it's not
going to be a hard sale so it could be
sales teams could be HR recruitment
fintech Sports manufacturing you know
all the industries that you typically
serve well have bought well have the
problem you solve and have cash to
invest column three what are the main
competitors that come up on sales calls
time and again in The Proposal space
that could be proposify Panda do quiller
get accept you know these grab them from
yourselves team your CS team and list
them out here in column 3 and the last
column column four jobs to be done what
are the main jobs the main struggling
moments that folks face before they know
about your offer before they know about
your solution a lot of what I've talked
about up to now is bottom of funnel this
is more of a top funnel more
informational based query but still good
to position your author as the
painkiller and the solution when
someone's searching for an issue in the
proposal space that could be how to
write proposals that convert how to
create interactive proposals how to
close more sales how to close more sales
proposals how to close more sales quotes
how to build out quotes that sell that
kind of stuff but maybe someone doesn't
know your offer exists but they're
searching for that specific problem that
you solve and you can position your
offer as the right choice the painkiller
once you've made those four columns
offer industry competitors and jobs to
be done then once you've exalted that
you can start building longtail
commercial
keywords that folks will search on
Google when they need your offer so
first off in The Proposal theme that
might be best proposal software proposal
tools pral platform now these will yield
a decent amount of traffic it'll be high
intent but they will be pretty difficult
to rank for so that could probably be
long-term keywords that you'd look to
chip away at over the months to come
they will de yield you decent traffic
they will yield potentially good leads
but they're going to be quite difficult
to rank for because you'll have your big
competitors already taking up real
estate on Google so you want to slowly
triip away at those so I recommend you
go for more longtail keywords where you
combine offer plus the industry and the
issue serve so that could be things like
best proposal software for recruitment
best proposal software for HR best
proposal software for sales teams or
proposal software for fintech so offer
plus money Niche that'll be a little bit
easier to rank fors a bit more detailed
a bit more specific the keywords a bit
longer now next we'll grab our
competitor competitors that we listed
out so going for especially in B2B SAS
alternative or pricing or reviewbased
keyword competive keywords are super
effective so if we pretend we're
proposify we might go for things like
Panda do Alternatives Panda do pricing
pandadoc reviews or get accept
Alternatives get accept reviews get
accept pricing the reason these work so
well is you probably know already B2B
companies often evaluate three four or
more vendors before they're ready to buy
they make a short list of three four
five vendors or more they discuss it
internally and they're usually on the
fence comparing options so they'll go to
Google and they'll search things like in
The Proposal space get accept
alternative or G accept pricing or
proposify pricing or proposify
Alternatives and this is your chance to
shine a light on how you stand out why
you're different and why they should
consider you instead of a competitor
they're investigating another way to do
these is versus keywords so perhaps you
go proposify versus Quilla and then you
position yourself as the third choice
you so these two have got good points
here but they fall short here and this
is where we shine above each others so
that's it column one offer column two
industry column 3 competitors and column
four the jobs to be done so what are
those problems that your dream clients
face when they might not know your
exists but they're struggling with a
problem you solve so speak to your Sal
team speak to customer success team get
those how-to issues that folks are
struggling with before they know about
your offer so how to write proposals
that convert how to build out sales
quotes that close how to close more
deals with my proposals all that kind of
stuff grab those juicy in sites from
your sales team and make out those
exhausted lifts once you've got those
main keyword opportunities run them
through a tool like hat refs or Sam rush
to check they've got a little bit of
search volume don't be worried about
tons of traffic or tons of search volume
quite often these commercial money
keywords have lower search volume
compared to informational based keywords
like what is something or how is
something or that kind of stuff or how
to something it's good it means there's
less volume but more buying intent
behind it so you can start making a
exhaustive list of these longtail
keywords and then we can move on to
building out pages that are going to
rank resonate and convert once you've
built out your exhaustive list of money
keywords the next thing to do is build
out content to rank resonate and convert
for each one of those money keywords
easiest way to do this is a process
called assessing page intent what type
of page does Google favor for our Target
keywords is it a landing page an article
a product listicle comparison page or
something else in our example proposal
software if we go for proposify
Alternatives and search on Google we
want to look at what are probably the
top three organic rankings non-paid
non-sponsored results what typically
ranks quite well for this term so in
this case what's ranking well we can see
number one or organic is quiller eight
proposify Alternatives and we've got
better proposals with alternatives to
proposify and then number three Panda
dot 10 proposify Alternatives so let's
jump in quickly to the number one result
which is Quilla it's a product
comparison it's a product listicle so a
few things to consider when you're
evaluating pages when you're building
out Pages now a common issue a common
mistake I see is a lot of B2B and SAS
companies spend weeks or Worse months on
technical SEO and from experience it's
not until so many BB and SAS companies a
light on content like most of them have
10 50 pages before they start SEO it's
not until you get to thousands and
thousands of pages that you want to mess
around with deep technical SEO like
tinkering with old tags worrying about
getting your page speed 0.01 second
quicker instead focusing on the
fundamentals of SEO and focusing on
publishing content at speed and making
your content way better than whatever is
ranking organic 1 the whole point of
this exercise is to see what's ranking
organic 1 and then look to blow that
page out of the war to make your page
more useful helpful trustworthy shine
expertise Google have a framework called
eat experience expertise Authority and
Trust they want to show that this page
is trustworthy it's helpful it's useful
and it convinces someone to take action
so bear that in mind so when it comes to
technical SEO I like to keep things
simple So within your meta title weave
in your money keyword and the same for
meta description you only want one H1
one H1 header one tag and weave in your
money keywords so Quilla did that eight
proposed five alternatives to consider
in 2025 so we've WR that in your H1 in
the header or Banner area of your
article you might have the author and
date within there as as well and a nice
image in that header area and then
usually these comparison based articles
they position the main offer their
product is number one and then have
competitors underneath Comm mistake on
competitor articles is saying yes you're
number one but then bashing your
competitors and just saying we're really
really great we're the best in class and
then bashing the competitors it's not
going to build trust with the audience
and it might even get you legal battles
with your competitors so I encourage you
for Alternatives based Pages follow that
technical SEO framework that I said so
make sure your money keyword is within
your meta title and description make
sure it's on your heading one only have
one heading one per page make sure it's
within URL so yourdomain.com then for/
money keyword so as this example is
quill.com and/ proposify hyphen
alternative you have a hyphen separate
spaces and then the only other technical
SEO I'd say is have a solid ux a solid
UI so a solid design that's ideally
backed by customer research looks good
and your dream client sale looks good
and a page that's easy to navigate and
the last thing is to have some internal
links so Google can easily crw the page
so weave in internal links maybe to a
relevant landing page Pages product
pages case study pages so folks can
easily craw to other Pages where they
want to go and likewise Google can
easily crawl the site and then the best
way to build out our comparison page is
to position your office number one but
below the page that's currently ranking
out of the water so to be safe instead
of doing eight Alternatives I would go
for 20 just so there's no chance
someone's going to beat your page
anytime soon and when you're positioning
have a quick intro about the offer maybe
a quick takeaways quick summary what
someone can expect in the article maybe
you build out a comparison table and
then build out your page your offer is
number one maybe you have screenshots
gifts videos or even a live demo showing
the aha moment the actual cool moment
where your product is best placed what
folks actually want to see about that
ahon under the Bonnet of your offer and
then share your differentiators why do
clients Choose You what problems you
solve that others don't what features
you have that others don't why do folks
pick you over other options maybe
weaving a customer testimony of why they
chose you above others share a bit about
of information about your features
pricing all that good stuff and then
because this is a bottom of finnal high
intent page have a cool to action to
book a cool or book demo so that is an
example of a alternative based article
but if we give you another example so
one of our clients the B2B Playbook we
rank them number one recently for demand
generation course demand gen course and
a bunch of other similar keywords
getting them above HubSpot Pavilion cxl
and some really well authorative
competitors and the btb Playbook had
very limited Authority themselves so
similar structure but this is a landing
page not an article that we built out
for them so in their case it's they're
going for their money keyword and the
URL their domain B2B playbook.com /
demand hyphen generation hyphen course
their main keyword within the H1 heading
one tag only one heading one tag per
page so the ultimate demand generation
course to crash your Revenue Targets in
2025 and they've also got their money
keyword in their meta title and
description and then a framework that I
like to use within landing pages is
problem agitation solution what's the
problem that folks are facing what's the
impact of not fixing yet let's agitate a
bit let's annoy what happens if you
don't fix it and then position your
offer as the solution use the framework
eat Google brought out a while back
experience expertise Authority trust
make sure that all shines through in
your page and then in their case we
evaluated hubspot's page cxls page and
we looked to blow their Pages out of the
water just make our page more detailed
helpful useful and trustworthy in their
hero area they've got a quick summary of
what it's about they've got a nice
YouTube video in bed they've got a clear
call to action to sign up then they've
got some social proof straight away
customer testimonials they've got a bit
of a way to build Demand by having
account down timer for when the next
cohort of their course runs then they
they dig into the problem you might be
facing you struggling with x he's
struggling why he's struggling to
generate demand he's struggling to build
pipeline you drowned in the busy work of
being a marketer on a hamster wheel
because that course is all about
empowering B2B marketers to build demand
and drive qualified inbounds and revenue
what's wrong with doing it the current
way life before life after really nice
format and then weaving in how the
product how their author how their
training actually fixes all these
problems some nice screenshots so where
B2B and SAS companies often go wrong as
they don't weave in their offer into the
content just make sure you're making
your offer product Le show the
screenshot show the product in action
show the Ala moments we in relevant
videos YouTube ineds can be super
powerful as well walk through what's
entailed in the course in their case or
what's walk through what's entailed in
your offer your product weaving in some
more social proof so some LinkedIn shout
outs a bit more about the course and
then some FAQs FAQs can be a super power
for landing pages it can help Google
rank your site better because you're
addressing common queries and objections
but it can also enable sales big sales
enabler you can handle objections head
on but don't do generic FAQs like in
this case what's the demand generation
course more specifically take up those
juicy difficult questions you get on
sales calls like why should I trust you
guys I've seen another program that's
cheaper what's your refund policy do I
get an account manager how much support
do I get after get all those super tough
questions and then build out an FAQ
section from all those juicy sales calls
and objections at the bottom of the page
it's Works an absolute treat for
learning pages to Google content that'll
love give prospects content they'll love
show transparency overcome those
objections and actually save your sales
teams time and get folks more likely to
inquire or convert and then some more
social proof at the End customer quotes
testimonials showing why they chose this
course over competitors so that's that's
a bit of a framework you can take like I
say go steady on the technical SEO
follow those main points that we
discussed and aside from that make sure
your page completely blows whatever else
is ranking completely out the water
whether it's an article landing page
listicle comparison or something else a
massive point to note here is speed to
published page is your absolute
Advantage as a B2B Tech SAS or Service
Company most of us have got giant
competitors that have been in the game
years years and years probably got
massive budgets and just going to
completely blow us out the wall when it
comes to ad spend or similar your
advantage is to be able to plan out your
money keywords like we talked about plan
out the pages that you need to
completely blow the competitors out the
water and having a bias to publish at
speed so many giant companies they just
move slow takes them ages to plan out
keywords and topics take them ages to
build out Pages takes them ages to then
send that to their design team then to
their web development team then to QA
then to legal and it could be months
months and months before these big
companies have even published one or two
pages meanwhile you can do this process
literally in days if you've got a bias
towards taking action the quicker you
can get these Pages planned researched
and published the quicker that you can
start ranking getting multiple lines in
the water start driving those high
quality inbound leads from dream clients
searching directly for your offers
getting more lines in the water it
typically takes 2 to 3 months or up to
90 days for page rank ings to settle on
Google so the quicker you can publish
the quicker you can start ranking
driving those juicy organic traffic
inbounds and revenues for your B2B
company now it's time to build back
links what the heck is a backlink a
backlink in simple terms is a link from
another site back to yours usually with
something go to do follow link it's a
trust signal it sends a trust signal to
Google it helps build up something
called your domain rating or the domain
authority of your website and it comes
in especially useful when you're trying
to rank for really competitive terms so
earlier we talked about ranking look for
best proposal software or best proposal
platforms it's going to be really
difficult cuz all the giant players in
your industry going to be trying to go
after those competitive keywords too
what we found when we were trying to
rank the B2B playbook for demand
generation course we struggling on page
two we built out the best in-class page
but some of the big competitors like
HubSpot and others were surpassing them
so we knew we needed to build some back
links I'm going to share two super juicy
free strategies so you can build some
quality back links for your money
keywords one of my favorite lessonn
strategies is using a tool like H refs
or semrush you quite literally just copy
and paste your founder your CEO or your
one of your exact team perhaps someone
that's quite often doing interviews or
in the press or getting PR copy and
paste their LinkedIn profile into HS or
semrush and then once you've copied
their LinkedIn profile page I've got
mine as an example on the screen then we
go to back links and you can look up all
the websites that are linking to their
LinkedIn profile and you'll see you can
filter those by domain rating or domain
Authority and you'll see there's some
pretty nice sites and all I recommend
you do is right now we know that those
articles are linking to our site look
for the ones that are relevant to your
Niche so Niche relevant sites start with
the ones with the highest domain
Authority on rating and simply reach out
to those folks find them one LinkedIn
drop a notes say hey thanks for
featuring our EXA in this article
recently had a small ask could you
quickly change the LinkedIn profile to
actually do a do follow link to this
page so the focus page that you're
trying to rank for that money keyword
most folks will have to be obliged
especially if you've got a pre-made
partnership with them already so that's
a strategy really quick win and another
way you can do is instead of once you've
exhausted this you can copy and paste
your website URL in there so you can
look at all the companies already
linking to your website already but
perhaps they're not linking to the right
page or perhaps you want to change the
focus keyword or something like that
that's something you can do afterwards
so that's one the next one is to use a
site called listen notes this is a super
powerful strategy not just for building
links but building authority in your
Niche and building up your audience go
to listen notes.com typee in
your focused category so in my case it
might be B2B marketing or SAS marketing
or B2B strategies yours might be Finance
HR fintech and then you can look at the
top podcasts in your Niche so we can see
breaking B2B my podcast here and all you
got to do is you can filter them to you
can filter by the top listened you can
filter by dates relevance and much much
more categories so start with your focus
Niche look at the top podcast in your
Niche you can see who hosts them and
then I recommend maybe doing 5 to 10 of
these outreaches per day if you're
serious about ramping quality links
connect with whoever is the host on
LinkedIn drop them a painfully short
message like hey Steve recently listened
to episode on XYZ enjoyed the note on
this had an unusual idea for your
podcast against a conversation something
painfully short to PE their interest
once they accept your request send them
a quick loom video or similar and just
say look enjoying podcast here's my
unusual idea I can share tips on XYZ
which I believe will be a value to your
audience and then ask if they're open to
having you on your show if you're doing
five or so of those outreaches per day
you're steadily going to get accepted on
the shows when you do the recording make
sure it's valuable make sure you share
useful tips ideas insights not only you
going to get you're going to reach new
audiences when you do the show and you
go onto their podcast you get potential
leads but you can ask them when they
publish the show on that podcast article
page on their website to ask for a do
follow link to one of your focus
keywords really solid way to build up
not only relationships build new
audiences get potential leads but get
really nice links for Niche relevant
websites and last up we've got a bit of
a secret tip and that is using video to
earn extra rankings in Google's organic
search engine results page you can
actually secure up to four or more
rankings using video from YouTube as an
example if you search B2B SAS SEO right
now I've got two videos showing up in
the organic search results page right at
the top of Google's videos results B2B
SEO I've got one of my own channel and
then one of me being interviewed on B2B
SEO and then SAS SEO I've got another
one there so you can get rankings in the
organic normal listings plus the video
and the other secret tip is why I found
is if on your landing page or your
article page or your product page if you
weave in if you embed a relevant YouTube
video on the topic maybe it's a walk
through break down a case study a how-to
an experiment or similar on that
specific focused keyword that's relevant
to the topic Google seems to favor those
pages that embed YouTube videos and rank
them a bit higher give them a bit of a
boost from what I've seen not only that
you going to secure more real estate on
Google like I've just broken down plus
you can get folks into your ecosystem
super important if you sell High ticket
B2B software services or similar so they
can check out your YouTube channel it
adds another layer of trust if they see
you on video and they might check out
more of your video breakdowns howto case
studies and encourage them to place more
trust and believe that you can actually
help them with that problem and then
eventually reach out to you because
they've seen that extra content and
built that extra layer of trust with
yourself so give video a try when you're
getting into SEO and there you have it
so what I've broken down in this episode
is a highlevel overview of ranking your
B2B company on Google and driving a
steady flow of traffic leads and
pipeline you might feel a little bit
overwhelmed and think that's perhaps a
little bit too much for myself for my
small marketing team to be able to
manage effectively publish its scale and
make SEO a serious organic growth
channel to drive leads Pipeline and
revenue for your business if it does
sound a little overwhelming we're happy
to fix that problem we're happy to stop
competitors consistently outranking you
on Google and making SEO a solid inbound
lead and revenue Channel why not book a
call over at breaking bb.com I can have
a chat with you find out what you're up
to now way you like to get to and see if
we're a good fit to start driving
Pipeline and revenue with SEO that's
breaking bb.com or if you're not ready
why not check out the breaking B2B
podcast or breaking B2B newsletter for
free actionable tips and advice and with
that I'll catch you on the next one
cheers